Bug batching: Installer 4.18 (#88997)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-18-release-notes.adoc

* Previously, when installing a cluster on Nutanix, the installation program could fail with a timeout while uploading images to Prism Central. This occurred in some slower Prism Central environments when the Prism API attempted to load the {op-system-first} image. The Prism API call timeout value was 5 minutes. With this release, the Prism API call timeout value is a configurable parameter `platform.nutanix.prismAPICallTimeout` in the `install-config.yaml` file and the default timeout value is 10 minutes.(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-49148[*OCPBUGS-49148*])

* Previously, the `oc adm node-image monitor` command failed because of a temporary API server disconnection and then displayed an error or End of File message. With this release, the issue is resolved. The installer ignores a temporary API server disconnection and the monitor command re-attempts to connect to the API server. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-48714[*OCPBUGS-48714*])

> * Previously, when you deleted backend service resources on {gcp-first}, some resources to be deleted were not found. For example, the associated forwarding rules, health checks, and firewall rules were not deleted. With this release, the installer tries to find the backend service by name first, then searches for forwarding rules, health checks, and firewall rules before it determines if those results match a backend service. The algorithm for associating resources is reversed and the appropriate resources are deleted. There are no leaked backend service resources and the issue is resolved. When you destroy a private cluster, the forwarding rules, backend services, health checks, and firewall rules created by the Ingress Operator are not deleted. (link https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-48611[*OCPBUGS-48611*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, when you deleted backend service resources on {gcp-first}, some resources to be deleted were not found. For example, the associated forwarding rules, health checks, and firewall rules were not deleted. With this release, the installation program tries to find the backend service by name first, then searches for forwarding rules, health checks, and firewall rules before it determines if those results match a backend service. The algorithm for associating resources is reversed and the appropriate resources are deleted. There are no leaked backend service resources and the issue is resolved. When you destroy a private cluster, the forwarding rules, backend services, health checks, and firewall rules created by the Ingress Operator are not deleted. (link https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-48611[*OCPBUGS-48611*])
```
See SSG: https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#_i

	
* Previously, when you installed {product-title} on {aws-first} and specified an edge machine pool without an instance type, in some instances it caused the edge node to fail. With this release, if you specify an edge machine pool without an instance type you must use the permission `ec2:DescribeInstanceTypeOfferings`. The permission derives the correct instance type available, based on the {aws-short} Local Zones or Wavelength Zones locations used. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-47502[*OCPBUGS-47502*])

* Previously, when the API server disconnected temporarily, the command `oc adm node-image monitor` reported an end of file (EOF) error. With this release, when the API server disconnects temporarily, the monitor command does not fail. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-46391[*OCPBUGS-46391*])
//------ page 1

> * Previously, when you specified the `HostedZoneRole` permission in the `install-config.yaml` file while creating a shared Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), you also had to specify the `sts:AssumeRole` permission. Otherwise, it caused an error. With this release, if you specify the `HostedZoneRole` permission the installer validates that the `sts:AssumeRole` permission is present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, when you specified the `HostedZoneRole` permission in the `install-config.yaml` file while creating a shared Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), you also had to specify the `sts:AssumeRole` permission. Otherwise, it caused an error. With this release, if you specify the `HostedZoneRole` permission the installation program validates that the `sts:AssumeRole` permission is present.
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-46046[*OCPBUGS-46046*])

* Previously, when the `publicIpv4Pool` configuration parameter was used during installation the permissions `ec2:AllocateAddress` and `ec2:AssociateAddress` were not validated. As a consequence, permission failures might occur during installation. With this release, the required permissions are validated before the cluster is installed and the issue is resolved.(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45711[*OCPBUGS-45711*])

* Previously, during a disconnected installation, when the `imageContentSources` parameter was configured for more than one mirror for a source, the command to create the agent ISO image could fail, depending on the sequence of the mirror configuration. With this release, multiple mirrors are handled correctly when the agent ISO is created and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45630[*OCPBUGS-45630*])

> * Previously, during CAPI installer-provisioned installation, the user provided a `machineNetwork` parameter. With this release, the installer uses a random `machineNetwork` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, during CAPI installer-provisioned installation, the user provided a `machineNetwork` parameter. With this release, the installation program uses a random `machineNetwork` parameter.
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45485[*OCPBUGS-45485*])

> * Previously, during an installation on {aws-first}, the installer used the wrong load balancer when searching for the `hostedZone` ID, which caused an error. With the release, the correct load balancer is used and the issue is resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, during an installation on {aws-first}, the installation program used the wrong load balancer when searching for the `hostedZone` ID, which caused an error. With the release, the correct load balancer is used and the issue is resolved.
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45301[*OCPBUGS-45301*])

> * Previously, endpoint overrides in {ibm-power-server-title} were not conditional. As a consequence, endpoint overrides were created incorrectly and caused failures in Virtual Private Environments (VPEs). With this release, endpoint overrides are conditional only for disconnected installations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, endpoint overrides in {ibm-power-server-title} were not conditional. As a consequence, endpoint overrides were created incorrectly and caused failures in Virtual Private Environments (VPE). With this release, endpoint overrides are conditional only for disconnected installations.
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44922[*OCPBUGS-44922*])

> * Previously, during a shared Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) installation, the installer added the records to a private DNS zone created by the installer instead of adding the records to the cluster’s private DNS zone. As a consequence, the installation failed. With this release, the installer searches for an existing private DNS zone and, if found, pairs that zone with the network that is supplied by the `install-config.yaml` file and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44641[*OCPBUGS-44641*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, during a shared Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) installation, the installation program added the records to a private DNS zone created by the installation program instead of adding the records to the cluster’s private DNS zone. As a consequence, the installation failed. With this release, the installation program searches for an existing private DNS zone and, if found, pairs that zone with the network that is supplied by the `install-config.yaml` file and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44641[*OCPBUGS-44641*])
```
Having 'installation program' so close together might sound a bit clunky...just for your consideration. :-)

* Previously, the `oc adm drain --delete-local-data` command was not supported in the 4.18 `oc` cli tool. With this release, the command has been updated to `oc adm drain --delete-emptydir-data`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44318[*OCPBUGS-44318*])

* Previously, US East (`wdc04`), US South (`dal13`), Sydney (`syd05`), and Toronto (`tor01`) regions were not supported for {ibm-power-server-title}. With this release, these regions, which include `PowerEdgeRouter` (PER) capabilities, are supported for {ibm-power-server-title}.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44312[*OCPBUGS-44312*])

> * Previously, during a {gcp-first} installation, when the installer was creating filters with large numbers of returned data, for example for subnets, it exceeded the quota for the maximum number times that a resource can be filtered in a specific period. With this release, all relevant filtering is moved to the client so that the filter quotas are not exceeded and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44193[*OCPBUGS-44193*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, during a {gcp-first} installation, when the installation program was creating filters with large numbers of returned data, for example for subnets, it exceeded the quota for the maximum number times that a resource can be filtered in a specific period. With this release, all relevant filtering is moved to the client so that the filter quotas are not exceeded and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44193[*OCPBUGS-44193*])
```

// ----- page 2
* Previously, during an {aws-first} installation, the installer validated all the tags in the `install-config.yaml` file only when you set `propogateTags` to true. With this release, the installer validates all the tags in the `install-config.yaml` file.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44171[*OCPBUGS-44171*])

* Previously, if the `RendezvousIP` matched a substring in the `next-hop-address` field of a compute node configuration, it reported a validation error. The `RendezvousIP` must match a control plane host address only. With this release, a substring comparison for `RendezvousIP` is used against a control plane host address only, so that the error no longer exists. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44167 [*OCPBUGS-44167*])
	

> * Previously, when you destroyed a cluster in {ibm-power-server-title}, the Transit Gateway connections were cleaned up. With this release, if the `tgName` is set, {rh-openstack-first} will not clean up the Transit Gateway connection when you destroy a cluster. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44162[*OCPBUGS-44162*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, when you deleted a cluster in {ibm-power-server-title}, the Transit Gateway connections were cleaned up. With this release, if the `tgName` is set, {rh-openstack-first} will not clean up the Transit Gateway connection when you delete a cluster. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44162[*OCPBUGS-44162*])
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43757[*OCPBUGS-43757*])

* Previously, the Agent-based Installer failed to parse the `cloud_controller_manager` parameter in the `install-config.yaml` configuration file. This resulted in the Assisted Service API failing because it received an empty string, and this in turn caused the installation of the cluster to failed on {oci-first}. With this release, an update to the parsing logic ensures that the Agent-based Installer correctly interprets the `cloud_controller_manager` parameter so that the Assisted Service API receives the correct string value. As a result, the Agent-based Installer can now installer a cluster on {oci}. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43674[*OCPBUGS-43674*])

* Previously, an update to {azure-short} SDK for Go removed the `SendCertificateChain` option and this changed the behavior of sending certificates. As a consequence, the full certificate chain was not sent. With this release, the option to send a full certification chain is available and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43567[*OCPBUGS-43567*])
// --- page 3

> * Previously, when installing a cluster on {gcp-first} using the CAPI-based method, the installer did not distinguish between internal and external load balancers while creating firewall rules. As a consequence, the firewall rule for internal load balancers was open to all IP sources, that is, `0.0.0.0/0`. With this release, the `cluster-api-provider-gcp` is updated to restrict firewall rules to the machine CIDR when using an internal load balancer. The firewall rule for internal load balancers is correctly limited to machine networks, that is, nodes in the cluster and the issue is resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, when installing a cluster on {gcp-first} using the CAPI-based method, the installation program did not distinguish between internal and external load balancers while creating firewall rules. As a consequence, the firewall rule for internal load balancers was open to all IP address sources, that is, `0.0.0.0/0`. With this release, the `cluster-api-provider-gcp` is updated to restrict firewall rules to the machine CIDR when using an internal load balancer. The firewall rule for internal load balancers is correctly limited to machine networks, that is, nodes in the cluster and the issue is resolved.
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43520[*OCPBUGS-43520*])

* Previously, when installing a cluster on {ibm-power-server-title} the required security group rules were not created.
With this release, the missing security group rules for installation are identified and created and the issue is resolved.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43518[*OCPBUGS-43518*])

* Previously, when you tried to add a worker node with the `oc adm node-image` command by using an instance that was previously created with {rh-openstack-first}, the operation failed. With this release, the issue is resolved by correctly setting the user-managed networking configuration.(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43513[*OCPBUGS-43513*])

> * Previously, when destroying a cluster on {gcp-first} a forwarding rule incorrectly blocked the installer. As a consequence, the destroy process failed to complete. With this release, the issue is resolved by the installer setting its state correctly and marking all destroyed resources as deleted. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-42789[*OCPBUGS-42789*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, when deleting a cluster on {gcp-first} a forwarding rule incorrectly blocked the installation program. As a consequence, the deletion process failed to complete. With this release, the issue is resolved by the installation program setting its state correctly and marking all deleted resources as deleted. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-42789[*OCPBUGS-42789*])
```

* Previously, you could not change the `AdditionalTrustBundlePolicy` parameter in the `install-config.yaml` file for the Agent-based Installer. The parameter was always set to `ProxyOnly`. With this release, you can set `AdditionalTrustBundlePolicy` to other values, for example, `Always`. By default, the parameter is set to `ProxyOnly`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-42670[*OCPBUGS-42670*])

* Previously, when you installed a cluster and tried to add a worker node with the `oc adm node-image` command it failed because the date, time, or both might have been inaccurate. With this release, the issue is resolved by applying the same Network Time Protocol (NTP) configuration in the target cluster `MachineConfig` chrony resource to the node ephemeral live environment (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-42544 [*OCPBUGS-42544*])

> * Previously, during installation the name of the artifact that the `oc adm node-image create` command generated did not include `<arch>` in its file name. As a consequence, the file name was inconsistent with other generated ISOs. With this release, a patch fixes the name of the artifact that is generated by the `oc adm node-image create` command by also including the referenced architecture as part of the file name and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-42528[*OCPBUGS-42528*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, during installation the name of the artifact that the `oc adm node-image create` command generated did not include `<arch>` in its file name. As a consequence, the file name was inconsistent with other generated ISOs. With this release, a patch fixes the name of the artifact that is generated by the `oc adm node-image create` command by also including the referenced architecture as part of the file name and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-42528[*OCPBUGS-42528*])
```
ISO might need expanding...I will look on the portal and check for you.

// --- page 4
* Previously, when a worker node was trying to join a cluster the rendezvous node rebooted before the process completed. As the worker node could not communicate as expected with the rendezvous node, the installation was not successful. With this release, a patch is applied that fixes the racing condition that caused the rendezvous node to reboot prematurely and the issue is resolved.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-41811 [*OCPBUGS-41811*])

> * Previously, when using the {ai-full}, selecting a multiarch image for `s390x` CPU architecture on {hybrid-console} could cause the installation to fail. The installation program reported an error that the new cluster was not created because the skip MCO reboot was not compatible with `s390x` CPU architecture. With this release, the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-41716[*OCPBUGS-41716*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, when using the {ai-full}, selecting a multi-architecture image for `s390x` CPU architecture on {hybrid-console} could cause the installation to fail. The installation program reported an error that the new cluster was not created because the skip MCO reboot was not compatible with `s390x` CPU architecture. With this release, the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-41716[*OCPBUGS-41716*])
```
In portal searches, I saw the full compound word - for your consideration.

> * Previously, when you selected a shared Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) during installation the bindings for the control plane service account remained. With this release, a fix ensures these bindings are destroyed and no artifacts remain. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-41538[*OCPBUGS-41538*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, when you selected a shared Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) during installation the bindings for the control plane service account remained. With this release, a fix ensures these bindings are deleted and no artifacts remain. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-41538[*OCPBUGS-41538*])
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-39231 [*OCPBUGS-39231*])

* Previously, when installing a cluster on bare metal using installer-provisioned infrastructure, the installation could time out if the network to the bootstrap virtual machine is slow. With this update, the timeout duration has been increased to cover a wider range of network performance scenarios. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-39081 [*OCPBUGS-39081*])

* Previously, the `oc adm node-image create` command failed when run against a cluster in a restricted environment with a proxy because the command ignored the cluster-wide proxy setting. With this release, when the command is run it includes the cluster proxy resource settings, if available, to ensure the command is run successfully and the issue is resolved.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38990[*OCPBUGS-38990*])

> * Previously, when installing a cluster on {gcp-first} into a shared Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) with a bring your own (BYO) hosted zone, the installation could fail due to an error creating the private managed zone. With this release, a fix ensures that where there is a preexisting private managed zone the installer skips creating a new one and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38966[*OCPBUGS-38966*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, when installing a cluster on {gcp-first} into a shared Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) with a bring your own (BYO) hosted zone, the installation could fail due to an error creating the private managed zone. With this release, a fix ensures that where there is a preexisting private managed zone the installation program skips creating a new one and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38966[*OCPBUGS-38966*])
```

* Previously, during installation the `oc adm node-image create` command used the kube-system/cluster-config-v1 resource to determine the platform type. With this release, the installation program uses the infrastructure resource, which provides more accurate information about the platform type.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38802[*OCPBUGS-38802*])

* Previously, a rare condition on {vmw-first} Cluster API machines caused the vCenter session management to time out unexpectedly. With this release, the Keep Alive support is disabled in the current and later versions of CAPV, and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38657 [*OCPBUGS-38657*])

* Previously, when a folder was undefined and the data center was located in a data center folder, a wrong folder structure was created starting from the root of the vCenter server. By using the `Govmomi DatacenterFolders.VmFolder`, it used the wrong path. With this release, the folder structure uses the data center inventory path and joins it with the virtual machine (VM) and cluster ID value, and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38599 [*OCPBUGS-38599*])

> * Previously, the installation program on {gcp-first} filtered addresses to find and delete internal addresses only. The addition of CAPG provisioned resources included changes to address resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, the installation program on {gcp-first} filtered addresses to find and delete internal addresses only. The addition of {cap-gcp-first}} provisioned resources included changes to address resources.
```

// --page 6
* Previously, due to an EFI Secure Boot failure in the SCOS, when the FCOS pivoted to the SCOS the virtual machine (VM) failed to boot. With this release, the Secure Boot is disabled only when the Secure Boot is enabled in the `coreos.ovf ` configuration file, and the issue is resolved (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-37736[*OCPBUGS-37736*])

* Previously, when deprecated and supported fields were used with the installation program on {vmw-first} a validation error message was reported. With this release, warning messages are added specifying that using deprecated and supported fields are not recommended with the installation program on {vmw-first}. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-37628 [*OCPBUGS-37628*])

> * Previously, if you tried to install a second cluster using existing Azure Virtual Networks (VNets) on {azure-first}, the installation failed. Where the front end IP address of the API server load balancer was not specified, CAPI fixed the address to `10.0.0.100`. As this IP address was already taken by the first cluster, this resulted in the second load balancer failing to install. With this release, a dynamic IP address checks whether the default IP address is available. If it is unavailable, the dynamic IP selects the next available address and you can install the second cluster successfully with a different load balancer IP. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-37442 [*OCPBUGS-37442*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, if you tried to install a second cluster using existing Azure Virtual Networks (VNet) on {azure-first}, the installation failed. Where the front end IP address of the API server load balancer was not specified, CAPI fixed the address to `10.0.0.100`. As this IP address was already taken by the first cluster, this resulted in the second load balancer failing to install. With this release, a dynamic IP address checks whether the default IP address is available. If it is unavailable, the dynamic IP selects the next available address and you can install the second cluster successfully with a different load balancer IP. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-37442 [*OCPBUGS-37442*])
```

* Previously, the installation program attempted to download the OVA on {vmw-first} whether the template field was defined or not. With this update, the issue is resolved. The installation program verifies if the template field is defined. If the template field is not defined, the OVA is downloaded. If the template field is defined, the OVA is not downloaded. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-36494 [*OCPBUGS-36494*])

* Previously, when installing a cluster on {ibm-cloud-title} the installation program checked the first group of subnets, that is 50, only when searching for subnet details by name. With this release, pagination support is provided to search all subnets. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-36236 [*OCPBUGS-36236*])

* Previously, when installing {cap-gcp-first} into a shared Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) without the required permission `compute.firewalls.create` the installation failed because no firewall rules were created. With this release, a fix ensures that a rule to create the firewall is skipped during installation and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-35262 [*OCPBUGS-35262*])

> * Previously, for the Agent-Based installer, the networking layout defined via nmstate may result in a configuration error if all hosts do not have a entry in the interfaces section that matches an entry in the networkConfig section. However, if the entry in the networkConfig section uses an actual physical interface name then the entry in the interfaces section is not required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, for the Agent-Based installer, the networking layout defined through nmstate might result in a configuration error if all hosts do not have an entry in the interfaces section that matches an entry in the networkConfig section. However, if the entry in the networkConfig section uses an actual physical interface name then the entry in the interfaces section is not required.
```
See ISG: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#m
See ISG: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#v

+
This fix ensures that the configuration will not result in an error if an entry in the networkConfig section has a physical interface name and does not have a corresponding entry in the interfaces table. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-34849 [*OCPBUGS-34849*])

> * Previously, the container tools module was enabled by default on the RHEL node. With this release, the container-tools module is disabled to install the correct package between conflicting repos. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-34844 [*OCPBUGS-34844*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, the container tools module was enabled by default on the RHEL node. With this release, the container-tools module is disabled to install the correct package between conflicting repositories. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-34844 [*OCPBUGS-34844*])
```

* Previously, when you deleted backend service resources on {gcp-first}, some resources to be deleted were not found. For example, the associated forwarding rules, health checks, and firewall rules were not deleted. With this release, the installation program tries to find the backend service by name first, then searches for forwarding rules, health checks, and firewall rules before it determines if those results match a backend service. The algorithm for associating resources is reversed and the appropriate resources are deleted. There are no leaked backend service resources and the issue is resolved. When you delete a private cluster, the forwarding rules, backend services, health checks, and firewall rules created by the Ingress Operator are not deleted. (link https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-48611[*OCPBUGS-48611*])

> * Previously, when you attempted to set the policy for a {gcp-first} service account, the API reported a `400: Bad Request` validation error. When you create a service account, it might take up to 60 seconds for the account to become active, and this causes the validation error. If this error occurs, create a service account with a true exponential backoff that lasts at least 60 seconds. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-48187[*OCPBUGS-48187*])

Author: Okay. I'll remove and ask the dev to create a KCS

* Previously, when the `publicIpv4Pool` configuration parameter was used during installation the permissions `ec2:AllocateAddress` and `ec2:AssociateAddress` were not validated. As a consequence, permission failures might occur during installation. With this release, the required permissions are validated before the cluster is installed and the issue is resolved.(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45711[*OCPBUGS-45711*])

* Previously, during a disconnected installation, when the `imageContentSources` parameter was configured for more than one mirror for a source, the command to create the agent ISO image could fail, depending on the sequence of the mirror configuration. With this release, multiple mirrors are handled correctly when the agent ISO is created and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45630[*OCPBUGS-45630*])

> * Previously, during CAPI installer-provisioned installation, the user provided a `machineNetwork` parameter. With this release, the installation program uses a random `machineNetwork` parameter. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45485[*OCPBUGS-45485*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, when installing a cluster using the Cluster API on installer-provisioned infrastructure, the user provided a `machineNetwork` parameter. With this release, the installation program uses a random `machineNetwork` parameter. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45485[*OCPBUGS-45485*])
```

* Previously, endpoint overrides in {ibm-power-server-title} were not conditional. As a consequence, endpoint overrides were created incorrectly and caused failures in Virtual Private Environments (VPE). With this release, endpoint overrides are conditional only for disconnected installations. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44922[*OCPBUGS-44922*])

* Previously, during a shared Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) installation, the installation program added the records to a private DNS zone created by the installation program instead of adding the records to the cluster's private DNS zone. As a consequence, the installation failed. With this release, the installation program searches for an existing private DNS zone and, if found, pairs that zone with the network that is supplied by the `install-config.yaml` file and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44641[*OCPBUGS-44641*]) (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44641[*OCPBUGS-44641*])

> * Previously, the `oc adm drain --delete-local-data` command was not supported in the 4.18 `oc` cli tool. With this release, the command has been updated to `oc adm drain --delete-emptydir-data`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44318[*OCPBUGS-44318*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, the `oc adm drain --delete-local-data` command was not supported in the 4.18 `oc` CLI tool. With this release, the command has been updated to `oc adm drain --delete-emptydir-data`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44318[*OCPBUGS-44318*])
```

* Previously, US East (`wdc04`), US South (`dal13`), Sydney (`syd05`), and Toronto (`tor01`) regions were not supported for {ibm-power-server-title}. With this release, these regions, which include `PowerEdgeRouter` (PER) capabilities, are supported for {ibm-power-server-title}.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44312[*OCPBUGS-44312*])

* Previously, during a {gcp-first} installation, when the installation program was creating filters with large numbers of returned data, for example for subnets, it exceeded the quota for the maximum number times that a resource can be filtered in a specific period. With this release, all relevant filtering is moved to the client so that the filter quotas are not exceeded and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44193[*OCPBUGS-44193*]) 

> * Previously, during an {aws-first} installation, the installer validated all the tags in the `install-config.yaml` file only when you set `propogateTags` to true. With this release, the installer validates all the tags in the `install-config.yaml` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, during an {aws-first} installation, the installation program validated all the tags in the `install-config.yaml` file only when you set `propogateTags` to true. With this release, the installation program validates all the tags in the `install-config.yaml` file.
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44171[*OCPBUGS-44171*])

> * Previously, if the `RendezvousIP` matched a substring in the `next-hop-address` field of a compute node configuration, it reported a validation error. The `RendezvousIP` must match a control plane host address only. With this release, a substring comparison for `RendezvousIP` is used against a control plane host address only, so that the error no longer exists. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44167[*OCPBUGS-44167*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, if the `RendezvousIP` value matched a substring in the `next-hop-address` field of a compute node configuration, it reported a validation error. The `RendezvousIP` value must match a control plane host address only. With this release, a substring comparison for `RendezvousIP` value is used against a control plane host address only, so that the error no longer exists. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44167[*OCPBUGS-44167*])
```

> * Previously, when you deleted a cluster in {ibm-power-server-title}, the Transit Gateway connections were cleaned up. With this release, if the `tgName` is set, {rh-openstack-first} will not clean up the Transit Gateway connection when you delete a cluster. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44162[*OCPBUGS-44162*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, when you deleted a cluster in {ibm-power-server-title}, the Transit Gateway connections were cleaned up. With this release, if the `tgName` parameter is set, {rh-openstack-first} does not clean up the Transit Gateway connection when you delete a cluster. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44162[*OCPBUGS-44162*])
```

> * Previously, when installing a cluster on an {ibm-title} platform and adding an existing VPC to the cluster, the {cap-ibm-first} would not add ports 443, 5000, and 6443 to the security group of the VPC. This situation prevented the VPC from being added to the cluster. With this release, a fix ensures that the {cap-ibm-first} adds the ports to the security group of the VPC so that the VPC gets added to your cluster.(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44068[*OCPBUGS-44068*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, when installing a cluster on an {ibm-title} platform and adding an existing VPC to the cluster, the {cap-ibm-first} would not add ports 443, 5000, and 6443 to the security group of the VPC. This situation prevented the VPC from being added to the cluster. With this release, a fix ensures that the {cap-ibm-first} adds the ports to the security group of the VPC so that the VPC gets added to your cluster. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44068[*OCPBUGS-44068*])
```

* Previously, the {cap-ibm-first} module was very verbose. With this release, the verbosity of the module is reduced, and this will affect the output of the `.openshift_install.log` file. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44022[*OCPBUGS-44022*])

> * Previously, when you deployed a cluster on a {cap-ibm-first} zone, the load balancers were slow to create. As a consequence, the cluster failed. With this release, the {cap-ibm-first} provider no longer has to wait until all load balancers are ready and the issue is resolved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, when you deployed a cluster on a {ibm-power-server-title} zone, the load balancers were slow to create. As a consequence, the cluster failed. With this release, the {cap-ibm-first} no longer has to wait until all load balancers are ready and the issue is resolved.
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43923[*OCPBUGS-43923*])

* Previously, for the Agent-based Installer, all host validation status logs referred to the name of the first registered host. As a consequence, when a host validation failed, it was not possible to determine the problem host. With this release, the correct host is identified in each log message and now the host validation logs correctly show the host to which they correspond, and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43768[*OCPBUGS-43768*])

> * Previously, when you use the `oc adm node-image create` command to generate the image while running the Agent-based Installer and the step fails, the accompanying error message does not show the container’s log. The `oc adm node-image create` command uses a container to generate the image. When the image generation step fails, the basic error message does not show the underlying issue that caused the image generation failure. With this release, to help troubleshooting, the `oc adm node-image create` command now shows the container’s log, so the underlying issue is displayed and the issue is resolved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, when you used the `oc adm node-image create` command to generate the image while running the Agent-based Installer and the step fails, the accompanying error message did not show the container log. The `oc adm node-image create` command uses a container to generate the image. When the image generation step fails, the basic error message does not show the underlying issue that caused the image generation failure. With this release, to help troubleshooting, the `oc adm node-image create` command now shows the container log, so the underlying issue is displayed.
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43757[*OCPBUGS-43757*])

> * Previously, the Agent-based Installer failed to parse the `cloud_controller_manager` parameter in the `install-config.yaml` configuration file. This resulted in the Assisted Service API failing because it received an empty string, and this in turn caused the installation of the cluster to failed on {oci-first}. With this release, an update to the parsing logic ensures that the Agent-based Installer correctly interprets the `cloud_controller_manager` parameter so that the Assisted Service API receives the correct string value. As a result, the Agent-based Installer can now installer a cluster on {oci}. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43674[*OCPBUGS-43674*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, the Agent-based Installer failed to parse the `cloud_controller_manager` parameter in the `install-config.yaml` configuration file. This resulted in the Assisted Service API failing because it received an empty string, and this in turn caused the installation of the cluster to fail on {oci-first}. With this release, an update to the parsing logic ensures that the Agent-based Installer correctly interprets the `cloud_controller_manager` parameter so that the Assisted Service API receives the correct string value. As a result, the Agent-based Installer can now installer a cluster on {oci}. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43674[*OCPBUGS-43674*])
```

* Previously, an update to {azure-short} SDK for Go removed the `SendCertificateChain` option and this changed the behavior of sending certificates. As a consequence, the full certificate chain was not sent. With this release, the option to send a full certification chain is available and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43567[*OCPBUGS-43567*])

> * Previously, when installing a cluster on {gcp-first} using the CAPI-based method, the installation program did not distinguish between internal and external load balancers while creating firewall rules. As a consequence, the firewall rule for internal load balancers was open to all IP address sources, that is, `0.0.0.0/0`. With this release, the `cluster-api-provider-gcp` is updated to restrict firewall rules to the machine CIDR when using an internal load balancer. The firewall rule for internal load balancers is correctly limited to machine networks, that is, nodes in the cluster and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43520[*OCPBUGS-43520*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, when installing a cluster on {gcp-first} using the Cluster API implementation, the installation program did not distinguish between internal and external load balancers while creating firewall rules. As a consequence, the firewall rule for internal load balancers was open to all IP address sources, that is, `0.0.0.0/0`. With this release, the {cap-gcp-short} is updated to restrict firewall rules to the machine CIDR when using an internal load balancer. The firewall rule for internal load balancers is correctly limited to machine networks, that is, nodes in the cluster and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43520[*OCPBUGS-43520*])
```

> * Previously, when installing a cluster on {ibm-power-server-title} the required security group rules were not created. With this release, the missing security group rules for installation are identified and created and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43518[*OCPBUGS-43518*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, when installing a cluster on {ibm-power-server-title}, the required security group rules were not created. With this release, the missing security group rules for installation are identified and created and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43518[*OCPBUGS-43518*])
```

> * Previously, when you tried to add a worker node with the `oc adm node-image` command by using an instance that was previously created with {rh-openstack-first}, the operation failed. With this release, the issue is resolved by correctly setting the user-managed networking configuration.(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43513[*OCPBUGS-43513*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, when you tried to add a compute node with the `oc adm node-image` command by using an instance that was previously created with {rh-openstack-first}, the operation failed. With this release, the issue is resolved by correctly setting the user-managed networking configuration. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43513[*OCPBUGS-43513*])
```

> * Previously, when destroying a cluster on {gcp-first} a forwarding rule incorrectly blocked the installer. As a consequence, the destroy process failed to complete. With this release, the issue is resolved by the installer setting its state correctly and marking all destroyed resources as deleted. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-42789[*OCPBUGS-42789*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, when destroying a cluster on {gcp-first}, a forwarding rule incorrectly blocked the installation program. As a consequence, the destroy process failed to complete. With this release, the issue is resolved by the installation program setting its state correctly and marking all destroyed resources as deleted. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-42789[*OCPBUGS-42789*])
```

* Previously, when configuring the Agent-Based Installer installation in a disconnected environment with more than one mirror for the same source, the installation might fail. This occurred because one of the mirrors was not checked. With this release, all mirrors are used when multiple mirrors are defined for the same source and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-42705[*OCPBUGS-42705*])

* Previously, you could not change the `AdditionalTrustBundlePolicy` parameter in the `install-config.yaml` file for the Agent-based Installer. The parameter was always set to `ProxyOnly`. With this release, you can set `AdditionalTrustBundlePolicy` to other values, for example, `Always`. By default, the parameter is set to `ProxyOnly`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-42670[*OCPBUGS-42670*])

> * Previously, when you installed a cluster and tried to add a worker node with the `oc adm node-image` command it failed because the date, time, or both might have been inaccurate. With this release, the issue is resolved by applying the same Network Time Protocol (NTP) configuration in the target cluster `MachineConfig` chrony resource to the node ephemeral live environment (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-42544[*OCPBUGS-42544*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, when you installed a cluster and tried to add a compute node with the `oc adm node-image` command, it failed because the date, time, or both might have been inaccurate. With this release, the issue is resolved by applying the same Network Time Protocol (NTP) configuration in the target cluster `MachineConfig` chrony resource to the node ephemeral live environment (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-42544[*OCPBUGS-42544*])
```

* Previously, during installation the name of the artifact that the `oc adm node-image create` command generated did not include `<arch>` in its file name. As a consequence, the file name was inconsistent with other generated ISOs. With this release, a patch fixes the name of the artifact that is generated by the `oc adm node-image create` command by also including the referenced architecture as part of the file name and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-42528[*OCPBUGS-42528*])

> * Previously, the Agent-based Installer set the `assisted-service` object to a debug logging mode. Unintentionally, the `pprof` module in the `assisted-service` object was then turned on and this uses the port `6060`. As a consequence, there was a port conflict and the `cloud-credential-operator` did not run. When requested by the {vmw-first} `cloud-controller-manager`, {vmw-short} secrets were not generated, the OpenStack Cloud Controller Manager (CCM) failed to initialize the nodes, and the cluster installation was blocked. With this release, the `pprof` module in the `assisted-service` object does not run when invoked by the Agent-based Installer. As a result, the `cloud-credential-operator` runs correctly and cluster installations on {vmw-short} that use the Agent-based Installer succeed. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-42525[*OCPBUGS-42525*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, the Agent-based Installer set the `assisted-service` object to a debug logging mode. Unintentionally, the `pprof` module in the `assisted-service` object, which uses port `6060`, was then turned on. As a consequence, there was a port conflict and the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) did not run. When requested by the {vmw-first} Cloud Controller Manager (CCM), {vmw-short} secrets were not generated, the {rh-openstack} CCM failed to initialize the nodes, and the cluster installation was blocked. With this release, the `pprof` module in the `assisted-service` object does not run when invoked by the Agent-based Installer. As a result, the CCO runs correctly and cluster installations on {vmw-short} that use the Agent-based Installer succeed. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-42525[*OCPBUGS-42525*])
```

> * Previously, when a worker node was trying to join a cluster the rendezvous node rebooted before the process completed. As the worker node could not communicate as expected with the rendezvous node, the installation was not successful. With this release, a patch is applied that fixes the racing condition that caused the rendezvous node to reboot prematurely and the issue is resolved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, when a compute node was trying to join a cluster the rendezvous node rebooted before the process completed. As the compute node could not communicate as expected with the rendezvous node, the installation was not successful. With this release, a patch is applied that fixes the racing condition that caused the rendezvous node to reboot prematurely and the issue is resolved.
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-41811[*OCPBUGS-41811*])

* Previously, when using the {ai-full}, selecting a multi-architecture image for `s390x` CPU architecture on {hybrid-console} could cause the installation to fail. The installation program reported an error that the new cluster was not created because the skip MCO reboot was not compatible with `s390x` CPU architecture. With this release, the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-41716[*OCPBUGS-41716*])

* Previously, when you selected a shared Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) during installation the bindings for the control plane service account remained. With this release, a fix ensures these bindings are deleted and no artifacts remain. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-41538[*OCPBUGS-41538*])

> * Previously, a coding issue caused the Ansible script on {rh-openstack} user-provisioned installation infrastructure to fail during the provisioning of compact clusters. This occurred when IPv6 was enabled for a three-node cluster. With this release, the issue is resolved and you can provision compact three-node clusters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, a coding issue caused the Ansible script on {rh-openstack} user-provisioned infrastructure installation to fail during the provisioning of compact clusters. This occurred when IPv6 was enabled for a three-node cluster. With this release, the issue is resolved and you can provision compact three-node clusters
```

on {rh-openstack} for user-provisioned installation infrastructure. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-39402[*OCPBUGS-39402*])

* Previously, the order of an Ansible Playbook was modified to run before the `metadata.json` file was created, which caused issues with older versions of Ansible. With this release, the playbook is more tolerant of missing files to accommodate older versions of Ansible and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-39285[*OCPBUGS-39285*])

> * Previously, when you installed a cluster there were issues using a worker node because the date, time, or both might have been inaccurate. With this release, a patch is applied to the live ISO time synchronization. The patch configures the `/etc/chrony.conf` file with the list of the additional Network Time Protocol (NTP) servers that the user provides in the `agent-config.yaml` file, so that you can use a worker node without experiencing a cluster installation issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, when you installed a cluster there were issues using a compute node because the date, time, or both might have been inaccurate. With this release, a patch is applied to the live ISO time synchronization. The patch configures the `/etc/chrony.conf` file with the list of the additional Network Time Protocol (NTP) servers that the user provides in the `agent-config.yaml` file, so that you can use a worker node without experiencing a cluster installation issue.
```

(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38990[*OCPBUGS-38990*])

* Previously, when installing a cluster on {gcp-first} into a shared Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) with a bring your own (BYO) hosted zone, the installation could fail due to an error creating the private managed zone. With this release, a fix ensures that where there is a preexisting private managed zone the installation program skips creating a new one and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38966[*OCPBUGS-38966*])
// --page 5
* Previously, an installer-provisioned installation on {vmw-first} to run {product-title} 4.16 in a disconnected environment failed when the template could not be downloaded. With this release, the template is downloaded correctly and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38918[*OCPBUGS-38918*])

> * Previously, during installation the `oc adm node-image create` command used the kube-system/cluster-config-v1 resource to determine the platform type. With this release, the installation program uses the infrastructure resource, which provides more accurate information about the platform type. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38802[*OCPBUGS-38802*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, during installation the `oc adm node-image create` command used the `kube-system/cluster-config-v1` resource to determine the platform type. With this release, the installation program uses the infrastructure resource, which provides more accurate information about the platform type. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38802[*OCPBUGS-38802*])
```

> * Previously, a rare condition on {vmw-first} Cluster API machines caused the vCenter session management to time out unexpectedly. With this release, the Keep Alive support is disabled in the current and later versions of CAPV, and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38657[*OCPBUGS-38657*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, a rare condition on {vmw-first} Cluster API machines caused the vCenter session management to time out unexpectedly. With this release, the Keep Alive support is disabled in the current and later versions of {cap-vsphere-short}, and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38657[*OCPBUGS-38657*])
```

* Previously, when a folder was undefined and the data center was located in a data center folder, a wrong folder structure was created starting from the root of the vCenter server. By using the `Govmomi DatacenterFolders.VmFolder`, it used the wrong path. With this release, the folder structure uses the data center inventory path and joins it with the virtual machine (VM) and cluster ID value, and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38599[*OCPBUGS-38599*])

> * Previously, the installation program on {gcp-first} filtered addresses to find and delete internal addresses only. The addition of {cap-gcp-first} provisioned resources included changes to address resources. With this release, CAPG creates external addresses and these must be included in a cluster cleanup operation. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38571[*OCPBUGS-38571*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, the installation program on {gcp-first} filtered addresses to find and delete internal addresses only. The addition of {cap-gcp-first} provisioned resources included changes to address resources. With this release, {cap-gcp-short} creates external addresses and these must be included in a cluster cleanup operation. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38571[*OCPBUGS-38571*])
```

* Previously, if you specified an unsupported architecture in the `install-config.yaml` file the installation program would fail with a `connection refused` message. With this update, the installation program correctly validates that the specified cluster architecture is compatible with {product-title}, leading to successful installations. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38479[*OCPBUGS-38479*])

> * Previously, when you used the Agent-based Installer to install a cluster, `assisted-installer-controller` timed out or exited the installation process depending on whether `assisted-service` was unavailable on the rendezvous host. This situation caused the cluster installation to fail during CSR approval checks. With this release, an update to `assisted-installer-controller` ensures that the controller does not timeout or exit if `assisted-service` is unavailable. The CSR approval check now works as expected. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38466[*OCPBUGS-38466*])

Reviewer 2: Several terms in backticks here with no nouns
```suggestion
* Previously, when you used the Agent-based Installer to install a cluster, `assisted-installer-controller` timed out or exited the installation process depending on whether `assisted-service` was unavailable on the rendezvous host. This situation caused the cluster installation to fail during CSR approval checks. With this release, an update to `assisted-installer-controller` ensures that the controller does not timeout or exit if `assisted-service` is unavailable. The CSR approval check now works as expected. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38466[*OCPBUGS-38466*])
```

* Previously, the installation program attempted to download the OVA on {vmw-first} whether the template field was defined or not. With this update, the issue is resolved. The installation program verifies if the template field is defined. If the template field is not defined, the OVA is downloaded. If the template field is defined, the OVA is not downloaded. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-36494[*OCPBUGS-36494*])

* Previously, when installing a cluster on {ibm-cloud-title} the installation program checked the first group of subnets, that is 50, only when searching for subnet details by name. With this release, pagination support is provided to search all subnets. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-36236[*OCPBUGS-36236*])

* Previously, when installing {cap-gcp-first} into a shared Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) without the required permission `compute.firewalls.create` the installation failed because no firewall rules were created. With this release, a fix ensures that a rule to create the firewall is skipped during installation and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-35262[*OCPBUGS-35262*])

> * Previously, for the Agent-Based installer, the networking layout defined through nmstate might result in a configuration error if all hosts do not have an entry in the interfaces section that matches an entry in the networkConfig section. However, if the entry in the networkConfig section uses an actual physical interface name then the entry in the interfaces section is not required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, for the Agent-Based installer, the networking layout defined through nmstate might result in a configuration error if all hosts do not have an entry in the interfaces section that matches an entry in the `networkConfig` section. However, if the entry in the `networkConfig` section uses a physical interface name then the entry in the interfaces section is not required.
```

+

> This fix ensures that the configuration will not result in an error if an entry in the networkConfig section has a physical interface name and does not have a corresponding entry in the interfaces table. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-34849[*OCPBUGS-34849*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This fix ensures that the configuration will not result in an error if an entry in the `networkConfig` section has a physical interface name and does not have a corresponding entry in the interfaces table. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-34849[*OCPBUGS-34849*])
```

> * Previously, the container tools module was enabled by default on the RHEL node. With this release, the container-tools module is disabled to install the correct package between conflicting repositories. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-34844[*OCPBUGS-34844*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, the container tools module was enabled by default on the {op-system-base} node. With this release, the container-tools module is disabled to install the correct package between conflicting repositories. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-34844[*OCPBUGS-34844*])
```

* Previously, a coding issue caused the Ansible script on {rh-openstack} user-provisioned installation infrastructure to fail during the provisioning of compact clusters. This occurred when IPv6 was enabled for a three-node cluster. With this release, the issue is resolved and you can provision compact three-node clusters
on {rh-openstack} for user-provisioned installation infrastructure. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-39402[*OCPBUGS-39402*])

* Previously, the order of an Ansible Playbook was modified to run before the `metadata.json` file was created, which caused issues with older versions of Ansible. With this release, the playbook is more tolerant of missing files to accommodate older versions of Ansible and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-39285[*OCPBUGS-39285*])

> * Previously, when you installed a cluster there were issues using a compute node because the date, time, or both might have been inaccurate. With this release, a patch is applied to the live ISO time synchronization. The patch configures the `/etc/chrony.conf` file with the list of the additional Network Time Protocol (NTP) servers that the user provides in the `agent-config.yaml` file, so that you can use a worker node without experiencing a cluster installation issue. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-39231[*OCPBUGS-39231*])

Reviewer 2: I missed the second instance of "worker" in this one when i reviewed - sorry!
```suggestion
* Previously, when you installed a cluster there were issues using a compute node because the date, time, or both might have been inaccurate. With this release, a patch is applied to the live ISO time synchronization. The patch configures the `/etc/chrony.conf` file with the list of the additional Network Time Protocol (NTP) servers that the user provides in the `agent-config.yaml` file, so that you can use a compute node without experiencing a cluster installation issue. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-39231[*OCPBUGS-39231*])
```

* Previously, due to an EFI Secure Boot failure in the SCOS, when the FCOS pivoted to the SCOS the virtual machine (VM) failed to boot. With this release, the Secure Boot is disabled only when the Secure Boot is enabled in the `coreos.ovf ` configuration file, and the issue is resolved (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-37736[*OCPBUGS-37736*])

* Previously, when deprecated and supported fields were used with the installation program on {vmw-first} a validation error message was reported. With this release, warning messages are added specifying that using deprecated and supported fields are not recommended with the installation program on {vmw-first}. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-37628[*OCPBUGS-37628*])

> * Previously, if you tried to install a second cluster using existing Azure Virtual Networks (VNet) on {azure-first}, the installation failed. Where the front end IP address of the API server load balancer was not specified, CAPI fixed the address to `10.0.0.100`. As this IP address was already taken by the first cluster, this resulted in the second load balancer failing to install. With this release, a dynamic IP address checks whether the default IP address is available. If it is unavailable, the dynamic IP selects the next available address and you can install the second cluster successfully with a different load balancer IP. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-37442[*OCPBUGS-37442*])

Reviewer 2: Is this "CAPI" new? I might have missed it. Change to "the Cluster API"
```suggestion
* Previously, if you tried to install a second cluster using existing Azure Virtual Networks (VNet) on {azure-first}, the installation failed. Where the front end IP address of the API server load balancer was not specified, the Cluster API fixed the address to `10.0.0.100`. As this IP address was already taken by the first cluster, this resulted in the second load balancer failing to install. With this release, a dynamic IP address checks whether the default IP address is available. If it is unavailable, the dynamic IP selects the next available address and you can install the second cluster successfully with a different load balancer IP. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-37442[*OCPBUGS-37442*])
```
